Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. It is a set of rules and operations such as commands, codes, and syntax that create a software program.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Development Kit includes Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (Javac),an
archiver (jar), and a documentation generator (javadoc).

What is IDE?
A. Integrated development environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, BlueJ, Oracle JDeveloper, DrJava, etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. The source code is written in java(loader). Javac compiles the source code and produces a byte code.
The byte code is loaded to JVM for verification and JIT interprets the byte code. The operating system gives the output.

what is class?
A. Blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A. Instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. Main Method.

Why main is static?
A. So it can be called without the creation of an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. path: location of bin files(binary executable files)
classPath: location of .class file(which is created after compilation of java source file)

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface: the access specifier is public, can be implemented
Abstract class: public, private or protected, cannot be extended, can contain non abstract methods and non
final variables

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, it has to inherit those to a concrete class and implement the abstract methods and then an object can be created.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Keywords in java that set accessibility of classes, methods and other members of the class. Ex.default, public, private
and protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. inheritence: class has access to the members of its parent without having to be reimplemented.
polymorhism: class can change the methods of its parents class to fit its specific needs as well as add its own members
encapsulation: restrict the scope of certain members so that they cannot be manipulated outside of the class where they
are defined, this is achieved with the "private keyword";
abstraction: process of implementation hiding. Used for certain features to be implemented without
having to worry about how.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Used to group related classes. Java.lang package is imported.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application programming interface. Facebook, Instagram, weather, google maps.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when both
extended class have a same method name. However, we can support multiple inheritances through interfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Methods with same name but different signature. It happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. If an exception occurs within the try block, it is thrown. Your code can catch this exception (using catch block) and
handle it in some rational manner. Also, exception handling is managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.The static keyword means that a member belongs to a class rather than an object. Static variable belongs to class.
Non static variable belongs to object. By declaring a method static we can call the method by class name, we do not need
to create an object.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. In final variable you must initialize and assign it. If you declare a method final in subclass you will not able to
modify/override it.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final: You must initialize and assign it. If you declare a method final in subclass you will not able to
modify/override it.
Finally: Is a block that is used to execute important code such as closing connection, stream etc. java finally block is
always executed weather exception is handled or not. Java finally block
follows try catch block.
Finalize: Is called by the garbage collector on an object when garbage collection determines that
there are no more reference to the object.

What is a constructor ?
A. To initialize the object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Refers to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. With the super key word we can call the super class variable, methods and also invoke
constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. No, platform dependent.

What version of java are you using?
A. Version 15

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK: is a software development kit, platform dependent
JVM: is an environment for executing bytecode, platform independent

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run. JVM is a part of JRE.

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time: is the stage when source code is converted to byte code
Runtime: is when the byte code is being executed

What is heap?
A. Heap space in Java is used for dynamic memory allocation for Java objects and JRE classes at the runtime.

How java manage it's memory?
A. There are three segments of memory:
   1)code segment
   2)stack
   3)heap
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
   StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That’s why StringBuilder is faster than
   StringBuffer.
   String concatenation operator (+) internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.
   For String manipulations in a non-multi threaded environment, we should use StringBuilder else use StringBuffer class.

What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton class allows you to create a single instance with the class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization: is the process of converting objects to byte stream
Deserialization: is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
A.When we do not want a variable to serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop: checks the condition first then does the task
Do while loop does one task first then checks the condition

What is Enum?
A. Enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants

What is Iterator?
A. An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. Strings are immutable because we cannot change their states once they are instantiated.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Calling a constructor of one class from other.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial collector: is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation
Parallel collector: uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just-In-Time compiler

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage
collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. It is an automatic process. But it can choose to reject the request and so it is not guaranteed that these
calls will do the garbage collection.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Heap memory: is used by all the parts of the application
Stack memory: is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself
and manipulate internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
A. It allows two or more parts of a program to run at the same time for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization is used to allow only one thread to access a cpu resource at a time.

What is Framework?
A. Bodies of prewritten code which we can use to develop our own applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. jUnit and testNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG has all the features of junit plus added features such as dependency testing, group testing, and object testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?
A. The concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding: occurs at compile time
Dynamic binding: occurs at runtime









